# Normative Quote
[fatecoresrd.opengamingnetwork.com](https://fatecoresrd.opengamingnetwork.com/) describes the action
resolution mechanic of the game as follows (some text elided):

> ### It’s Time For Action!
> You roll the dice when there’s some kind of interesting opposition keeping you from achieving your
> goals. If there’s no interesting opposition, you just accomplish whatever you say you’re trying to
> do.
> 
> Choose the character’s skill that is appropriate to the action.  Roll four fudge dice.  Add
> together he symbols showing on the dice. A "+" is +1, a "-" is -1, and a " " is 0.  The skill
> rating modified by the dice roll is your result. Find your result on the ladder.  If you invoke an
> aspect, add +2 to your result or reroll the dice.
> 
> Whenever you roll the dice, you’re comparing your roll to your opposition. Opposition is either
> active, meaning it’s another person rolling dice against you, or passive, meaning that it’s just a
> set rating on the ladder which represents the influence of the environment or situation you’re in.
> GMs, it’s your job to set the level of passive opposition for any skill roll.
>
> ### The Four Outcomes
> When you roll the dice, either you’re going to fail, tie, succeed, or succeed with style.
> 
> Every roll you make in a Fate game results in one of four types of outcomes, generally speaking.
> Depending on what kind of action you’re taking, the specifics may change a little, but all the
> game actions fit this general pattern.
> 
> If you don’t beat your opposition, you *fail*.  This means one of several things: you don’t get
> what you want, you get what you want at a serious cost, or you suffer some negative mechanical
> consequence. Sometimes, it means more than one of those. It’s the GM’s job to determine an
> appropriate cost.
> 
> If you roll the same as your opposition, you *tie*.  This means you get what you want, but at a
> minor cost, or you get a lesser version of what you wanted.
> 
> If you roll higher than your opposition by 1 or 2 shifts, you *succeed*.  This means you get what
> you want at no cost.
> 
> If you roll higher than your opposition by 3 or more shifts, you *succeed with style*.  This means
> that you get what you want, but you also get an added benefit on top of that.

# Common Cases
Whether the character accomplishes their intent is determined by skill + 4d3 + bonuses - 8 >=
opposition.

There are two mechanisms to aid another character in Fate Core.
 1. For group efforts, figure out who
 has the highest skill level among the participants. Each other participant who has at least an
 Average (+1) in the same skill adds a +1 to the highest person’s skill level, and then only the lead
 character rolls. Complications affect all participants equally.
 2. When setting up someone to succeed, the helper(s) use a "Create Advantage" action that affects
 the scene and creates "invocations" that can be exchanged for a +2 bonus. These may stack.

There are some [designer thoughts](http://ryanmacklin.com/2015/08/revising-teamwork-in-fate/) on the
"aid another" rules as well.

Opposed efforts are evaluated by generating the opposition score via the same rolling method.

Difficulty is represented by the opposition value, which is either passively set by the GM or
actively generated by a roll.

# Hooks
1. Invocation of scene aspects to create bonuses.
2. Skill of the character.

# Constants
In normal play:
Skill levels range from +1 to +4.
Opposition ranges from -2 (Terrible) to +8 (Legendary)

# Editorial Opinions

# External Links
[https://fate-srd.com/fate-core/taking-action-dice-ladder](https://fate-srd.com/fate-core/taking-action-dice-ladder)
