# Introduction
A teamwork dynamic emerges when players cooperate to accomplish a common goal. There are many
different forms of teamwork.

# Types of Teamwork
## Resource Pooling
The simplest form of teamwork is resource pooling, when players simply combine assets to take an
action that is otherwise controlled or determined by a single player.

## Role Specialization
Role specialization teamwork occurs when a task has multiple dimensions, and different members of
the team have different efficiencies at operating in those dimensions. Class systems in many
[tabletop RPGs](/games/tabletop/ttrpg) try to promote this type of teamwork, by giving different
classes different capabilities and limitations, and presenting challenges that require a combination
of these roles to succeed.

Role specialization also occurs commonly in real life - for example, a business may require many
different elements to succeed: it may need strategic direction, marketing or sales, engineering,
etc, all of which require skills that different people have to different amounts.

In games, role specialization can sometimes fall flat if the different roles do not actually draw on
different player skills. For example, in a turn-based strategy game, even if certain pieces are more
efficient at certain tasks, and those pieces are limited to certain players, another player might
still understand the optimal play of those pieces and indirectly command them, reducing this to
resource pooling. In [Pandemic](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/30549/pandemic), although each
player is assigned a role and might be thought to specialize in a certain task, often the players
all make decisions as a group and treat all characters as uniformly belonging to a group. In
contrast, in [Space Cadets](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/123096/space-cadets), the real-time
element involved in executing the tasks of each role, combined with the uncertainty created by
setting up the tasks, and the differences in skills (spatial, sensory, mathematical, etc) involved
in each role creates a strong dynamic of role specialization.

In general, for role specialization to be effective in games, collaboration must be limited.

## Divide & Conquer
In divide & conquer teamwork, a team splits a task into independent units, and divides members of
the team, assigning them to various tasks, which they then perform with limited interaction with
other group members.

### Mission Structure
A mission structure occurs in hierarchical teams, when a commander divides an effort into goals and
assigns team members to those goals (and potentially allocates assets to them). In a mission
structure, each team member has a specific objective to accomplish with the resources allocated to
them, and these objectives fit together toward accomplishing a larger goal.
