# Introduction
Character creation is a common mechanical process in [TTRPGs](/games/tabletop/ttrpg) that provides
restrictions and inspriations for the types of characters created in the game. The typical goal of
character creation mechanics is to align the characters with the desired
[aesthetics](/games/aesthetics) of the game, and to codify the mechanical implications of the
characters' features.

Character creation also provides an opportunity for the player to be introduced to the setting of
the game. This is most commonly seen in life-path systems but can also be accomplished in other
types of character creation systems.

# System Types
Most character creation systems are hybrids of the following types of systems:

## Classes
In class-based systems, a player makes a choice about which of several character archetypes best
matches their character, and their character inherits the abilities or choices of that archetype.

At its most extreme, a class-based system is simply choosing one of a number of pre-existing
characters.

## Life-Path
In life-path systems, a player makes discrete choices about what happened with their character at
various stages of life, accumulating character features as they go.

## Point-Buy
In point-buy systems, a player has a certain number of points to spend, and allocates these between
various features of their character. Taking "negative" traits (traits that are expected to make it
more difficult to accomplish goals) may award points back to the player.

> I struggled here to define what is meant by a "negative trait". In the Cortex family of games,
> these tend to be things like "blind" or "ugly" or "short" or "alcoholic" - but any one of these
> can be turned to advantage in certain situations (for example, while alcohol addiction is
> typically a negative force in the real life of a person, it might be a genuine advantage in some
> situations that come up during the game). So what was the designer's intent? That the feature is
> *usually* more harmful than helpful?
> 
> The classification of disabilities as "negative traits" is also problematic. Some systems call
> these "complications", which is more correct at the cost of not really meaning anything (every
> additional rule about a character complicates them).
>
> There's this concept that I've seen mentioned a few times that playing a "flawed" character or a
> character with "weaknesses" is more fun. That's true for certain aesthetics but not all. For
> example, power fantasies or escapism do not have any such requirement. Drama in static media such
> as print or television can exploit these flaws regularly - in general, the writers don't waste
> time establishing irrelevant character flaws. So to replicate that experience in a game, the game
> really has to be able to put these weaknesses right in the way of the characters. If done wrong,
> this can simply be a frustrating experience for the player.
>
> The inclusion of *optional* negative traits, especially in a point-buy system, always increases
> the overall power level of the characters created by that system, as a min-maxer can pick and
> choose from negative traits that are unlikely to be important. The GM is then left to figure out a
> way to bring the character's weaknesses into play, which doesn't fit every table - often, the
> GM has made some sort of commitment to the aesthetic, theme, or plot of the game prior to having
> the characters in front of them.
>
> This is even true to some extent for *mandatory* negative traits, as long as there is a selection
> of them, since some will be more relevant than others.
>
> - *Josh*.

## Relational
In relational systems, players make choices about how their character is related to other aspects of
the game (usually the other players and/or important locations, objects, or concepts).

Relational systems are more commonly used in games where the mechanical abilities of the characters
matter less than their relationships and motives.

## Retroactive
In retroactive systems, players decide what features their characters have at the moment the feature
may be important (typically during the normal play of the game). This leans on the concept of
[conservation of detail](https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/TheLawOfConservationOfDetail)
and is thought to detract from a [challenge aesthetic](/games/aesthetics/challenge), as it allows
players to decide important details about their character on the fly. However, it can contribute to
an [expression aesthetic](/games/aesthetics/expression) as it allows greater narrative choice, and
it avoids the *irrelevant choice problem* present in most "general" RPG character creation systems.

Retroactive systems typically still contain some sort of choice economy to keep characters aligned
with the overall aesthetics and scale of the game. They're more typical in shared-narrative and 

> It would be interesting to see a retroactive system that involves some bidding for the feature, as
> that would help find the true value. - *Josh*

## Roll
In roll systems, the player rolls dice to determine the features of their character.

Roll systems face a dilemma between allowing rerolls / restarts and forcing players to accept
outcomes they do not desire.

A roll system may provide *randomization of value*, where the result of the roll is used to
determine the value of a character feature. (For example, "sum 4d6 and use this as the character's
strength"). Alternatively, a roll system may provide *randomization of alternatives*, where the 
roll is used to choose between multiple alternatives of equal value.

# Irrelevant Choice Problem
TTRPGs intended to work with a variety of games (homebrew or purchased) face a problem whereby a
player may select a character feature that never (or only very rarely) comes into play. In
particular, each choice is typically accompanied by the opportunity cost of the other options, and
not all the options are of equal value. For example, say that a player has the option of making
their character a strong swimmer or a strong long-distance runner. In a game set in a desert, the
character's ability to swim may simply never be important. Similarly, on a game set on a whaling
vessel, the character's ability to run a long distance quickly is unlikely to ever be important.

The less general a TTRPG system, the less this problem is present, as the options available to the
character can be more closely suited to the game. 
