# Introduction
A king-maker dynamic occurs in multiplayer games when a player has no path to victory but can
determine who among the other players is the victor.

The dynamic is present to some extent in most adversarial games, because certain strategies may
hinder or help other players. This is espeically true in games of mutual attrition, since players
will necessarily weaken one another as they enact strategies.

A king-maker dynamic often emerges from games with mutual attrition mechanics, since it is
relatively easy for a player who is distant from victory to weaken one of the leading players.
Earlier in the game the weak form of king-maker is more tolerable, since the lead players are more
likely to agree to trade advantage to the trailing player in exchange for offsetting their more
immediate rivals. This in turn becomes a [catch-up dynamic](/games/dynamics/catch_up).

However, the dynamic generally becomes most clear close to the end-game, once the remainder of the
game can be predicted closely enough for a player to realize multiple options to affect the winner
of the game, but none to win for themself. Also, lead players will be unwilling to trade away
sufficient advantage that would cause the trailing player to win.

This dynamic is typically considered problematic and "un-fun", especially in
[single-winner](/games/winning) games. This is because the king-making player realizes that no
matter what they do, they cannot win, and the non-king-making players realize that no matter what
they do, whether or not they win will depend on the actions of another player.

However, the king-making scenario may only manifest in an uncommon subset of game states, and it can
be difficult to eliminate altogether. Designers may wish to instead focus on decreasing its
frequency, adopting earlier [player elimination](/games/mechanics/player_elimination), or adopting
an alternate [winning type](/games/winning).

# See Also
[Anti-leader](/games/dynamics/anti_leader) dynamics.
