# Introduction
Tabletop games are games generally characterized by mechanics simple enough to be manually
evaluated by human action or by the direct application of the laws of physics.

Tabletop games frequently (but not always) include physical pieces that can be set up in relation to
each other in order to assist tracking the state of the game.

# Examples
* Risk
* Settlers of Catan
* Jenga

# Actions
Tabletop games can be analyzed in terms of players' **actions**. An action in a tabletop game is a
specific input or choice made by the player into the game state. For example, moving a piece in
Chess is an action.

Game typically have an effective limit on the number of actions a player can take.

## Real-Time Games
Real-time games typically allow a player to take actions as fast and frequently as they are able,
though some actions may require time to complete.

## Turn-Based Games
Turn-based games typically designate a specific player as the player who can take the next action
and allow them time to decide on what that action should be. The decision period may still be
time-limited but typically the time required is significantly greater than the time required to take
and evaluate the action.

Turn-based games tend to be more easily analyzed in the abstract than real-time games, as they have
a more rigorous player action model.

Turn-based game design should consider the inactive players - most turn-based games with a single
active player struggle to scale beyond a certain number of players due to the decreasing fraction of
time each player is actively making decisions.

### Simultaneous
Simultaneous turn-based games avoid having any inactive players by having all players commit to
actions simultaneously. They typically alternate between action and resolution phases. The available
actions must be carefully designed so that there are no cases where mutually exclusive actions can
be simultaneously taken (for example, two players both moving a piece into the same space).
Alternatively, the resolution step can have rules for resolving potential conflicts (at the cost of
increased complexity).

Simultaneous turn-based games tend to automatically inherit a strong 
[prediction dynamic](/games/dynamics/prediction).

