# Introduction
Analysis paralysis occurs whenever a player of a game takes a long time to decide their next move
due to lengthy evaluation of all their options.

Analysis for high-stakes decisions usually expands to fill the available time. The available time is
typically limited by either game mechanics or the players' patience for long turns. Real-time games
typically have gamified analysis paralysis, as analysis itself carries an in-game opportunity cost.
Turn-based games sometimes gamify analysis by introducing a time limit on turns (or amortized time
limit across turns). [Chess](/games/tabletop/examples/chess) is a common example of such a game,
with widely available chess clocks.

Analysis paralysis usually occurs when players attempt to find optimal play.

Analysis paralysis is not always a voluntary behavior for a player.

# Mitigations
Dealing with analysis paralysis is fundamentally a player life skill. However, in games where this
dynamic is undesireable, the design can make choices to mitigate how frequently it can occur.

Because analysis paralysis happens most often on high-stakes decisions where the optimal strategy is
unclear, the design can:
1. Make the optimal strategy more clear.
    1. Summarize the relevant information for the player.
		2. Hide irrelevant information from the player.
		3. Clarify the potential outcomes of different choices.
2. Lower the stakes of the decision.
    1. Break a large decision point into multiple smaller decision points.
		2. Provide tolerance for error.
		3. Promise a means to undo the decision or to course-correct later.

The use of [hidden information](/games/information) may help reduce analysis paralysis, as players
may recognize that they do not have all the facts necessary to make a perfect choice and therefore
become willing to accept imperfection. However, this may have a reverse effect on certain players,
who will attempt to track the possible values of hidden information and make a decision considering
each possibility.

The use of time pressure will reduce the possible window in which analysis paralysis can delay the
game, as players must reach a decision within the alloted time window or face a consequence.
However, this adds an additional element of [challenge](/games/aesthetics/challenge) to the decision
and so can alter the game's aesthetics due to increased difficulty.
