# Normative Quote
The [Fudge SRD](http://www.sonic.net/~rknop/big/Omar/fudge/FudgeSRD.pdf) describes the action
resolution mechanic of the game as follows:

> For any action the player character wishes to perform, the GM must determine which trait is
> tested. (This will usually be a skill or an attribute.) If the action is Unopposed, the GM
> determines the Difficulty Level.  Some actions are so easy that the character succeeds
> automatically; others are impossible (no rolls needed).
>
> ### Unopposed Actions
> When a character performs an action that isn’t influenced by anyone else, it is referred to as an
> Unopposed action. Examples include jumping a wide chasm, climbing a cliff, etc.
>
> *Difficulty Level*: The GM will set a Difficulty Level when a character tries an Unopposed Action.
> Usually the Difficulty Level will be Fair, but some tasks are easier or harder.
>
> *Rolled Degree*: This refers to how well a character does at a particular task. If someone is Good
> at Climbing in general, but the die-roll shows a +1 to the character’s skill, then the rolled
> degree is one level higher than the character’s skill level— Great, in this case. Rolled degrees
> from Superb +1 to Superb +4 are possible; a GM may thus set a Difficulty Level beyond Superb for
> nearly impossible actions. Likewise, there are rolled degrees from Terrible -1 down to Terrible
> -4. The GM should use her imagination in determining the consequences of such abysmal failures.
>
> ### Opposed Actions
> Actions are Opposed when other people (or animals, etc.) may have an effect on the outcome of the
> action. In this case, the player of each contestant rolls some dice, and the results are compared
> to determine the outcome.
>
> *Relative Degree*: This refers to how well a character did compared to another participant in an
> Opposed Action.  The relative degree is expressed as a number of levels.  If a PC gets a rolled
> degree result of Good in a fight, and his NPC foe gets a rolled degree result of Mediocre, the PC
> beat his foe by two levels— the relative degree is +2 from his perspective, -2 from hers.

# Notes
The Fudge SRD doesn't prescribe a particular rolling method, though it does suggest four:
 1. Roll 4 fudge dice (4d3 - 8).
 2. Roll 2d6+2d6 (two different colors, one color positive one negative), keep only one die with the
 lowest absolute value. If there are two such die of different colors, the result is 0.
 3. Roll 3d6 and compare to a table (3-4: -4, 5: -3, 6-7: -2, 8-9: -1, 10-11: 0, 12-13: +1, 14-15:
 +2, 16: +3, 17-18: +4).
 4. Roll 1d100 and compare to a table (1: -4, 2-6: -3, 7-18: -2, 19-38: -1: 39-62: 0, 63-82: +1,
 83-94: +2, 95-99: +3, 100: +4).

The first method using actual fudge dice is preferred.

# Common Cases
Whether the character accomplishes their intent is determined by skill + 4d3 + bonuses - 8 >=
opposition. Degrees of success may apply.

The Fudge SRD does not define a mechanism to aid another character or for handling group efforts.

Opposed efforts are evaluated by generating the opposition score via the same rolling method.

Difficulty is represented by the difficult level or opposition value.

# Hooks
1. Skill of the character.
2. Difficulty of the task.

# Constants

# Editorial Opinions

# External Links
