# Introduction
Most games are oriented around a single goal, and the achievement of that goal is called "winning".
To fail to win is to "lose" (or, in some cases, to "tie").

# Types
A list of different types of winner selection follows.

## Self-Determined
In self-determined games, there is no official notion of victory or defeat. These are sometimes
called "sandbox" games.

> Some sources make a distinction between these "toys" and other "games". Here, we define a game as
> a structured form of play, and don't require that the structure has a particular goal. I think
> this matches the general consensus (most people would agree that SimCity is a "computer game").
> But not all "toys" are self-determined games. For example, a Lego block doesn't seem like it has
> "game mechanics", but it seems like SimCity does.
>
> ~ *Josh*

## Single-Winner
In single-winner games, there is a single person who is declared the winner (usually the one with
the most points, or the one that first achieves a win condition, etc). All other players lose.

Generally, the announcement of the winner is the final thing in a game session.

### Placing
In placing games, players are ranked according to the goal metric. Being in "first place" (having
most achieved the goal) is best, but "second place" is still better than "third place", which is
better than "fourth place" and so on. Many single-winner games implicitly have such a placing, or it
is commonly house-ruled in, since players like to be able to assess their performance, and most
playes do not win. Placing is the structure used for many [races](/games/field/examples/race) and
tournaments.

Every placing game can be converted into a single-winner game by considering only the first place
player to have won.

### Randomization
Some games randomize the selection of a winner (with players most aligned with the goal metric
having the greatest probability of being selected).

This can avoid [king-maker](/games/dynamics/king_maker) and [checkout](/games/dynamics/checkout)
dynamics, but can harm competitive players used to more typical single-winner games, since they may
feel cheated of victory.

> I'm struggling to recall examples. I have a vague notion of rolling d6 and counting down the VP
> track. Does Mario Party do this with the bonus stars? I need to check.
>
> ~ *Josh*

## Multiple-Winner
In multiple-winner games, multiple players can win.

Winners may be announced at the end of the game or during - it is not necessary to announce all the
winners and losers at once, though this is most common.

### Cooperative Games
In cooperative games, all players either win or lose together. The antagonist is usually the game
state and mechanics itself, which drive the game toward the loss condition while the players attempt
to drive it toward the win condition first.

### Guaranteed-Loser
In guaranteed-loser games (such as [New Angeles](/games/tabletop/examples/new_angeles)), the game is
structured such that at least one player must lose. This prevents purely cooperative strategies.

## High Score
In high score games, players are competing against the outcomes of other game sessions or their own
personal bests. High-score games are commonly associated with arcade games and pinball machines -
they involve record-keeping between game sessions, which is most easily accomplished in
[computer games](/games/computer), though exceptions do exist (for example, many players play
[Hanabi](/games/tabletop/examples/hanabi) for high score).

# Ties
A tie is a case where the winner cannot be determined, or two players have equally satisfied the
goal metric.

> I understand that some critics consider ties problematic (especially in otherwise single-winner or
> placing games). Positive reviews from critics is often considered important for indie tabletop
> game developers, which has led designers to include a large number of "tie-breaker" secondary goal
> metics that can be used to establish the placement of players. More importantly, a tie can be
> frustrating to highly competitive players, though it can be more satisfying than victory for
> fellowship-seeking players, since it can mean "nobody has to lose". In the end, I'd advise
> considering both the desired aesthetics and target audience of the game and the market culture
> when thinking about ties. And if they don't happen often, it's not a big deal either way.
>
> ~ *Josh*

# Goal Metrics
Some games allow the players to control elements of the goal metric (and may even have elements of
the goal metrics be [hidden information](/games/information)). It's also possible for there to be
multiple goal metrics, which may be shared or player-specific.
