# Introduction
Information in a game refers to the level of knowledge about the [game state](/games/state) that a
player has.

Most games have a combination of hidden and open information. Some games have only one or the other,
and other games (such as [Rock, Paper, Scissors](/games/tabletop/examples/rock_paper_scissors)) have
no game state at all and therefore have neither.

# Hidden Information
Hidden information is information that is available to some but not all players.

Hidden information primarily introduces uncertainty into play, by disguising optimal strategy,
allowing [bluffing](/games/dynamics/bluffing), and forcing players to make
[risk-rewqrd analyses](/games/dynamics/risk_reward_analysis) about the possible outcomes of an
action based on what information may be hidden.

Hidden information is also commonly used in [tabletop turn-based games](/games/tabletop) to prevent
[analysis paralysis](/games/dynamics/analysis_paralysis). It also is commonly used to conceal player
victory point totals to avoid a [checkout dynamic](/games/dynamics/checkout), and to a lesser extent
avoid [king-maker](/games/dynamics/king_maker) and [anti-leader](/games/dynamics/anti_leader)
dynamics.

> This last paragraph bears some thought and possible revision. If the award of each point (such as
> in [Evolution](/games/tabletop/examples/evolution)) is open information, is the point total of a
> player really formally hidden information? Or should there be some distinction for "open
> information that can't be referenced"?
>
> Regarding concealing point totals: this leans on the idea that a player won't track the point
> awards carefully, but some players will nonetheless (mentally or via private record-keeping).
> Often the use of hidden information simply raises the effort required to do this, which will
> dissuade players at certain tables but doesn't solve the underlying problem in the design. On the
> other hand, putting point tracking fully beyond the capabilities of a first-time player can
> greatly reduce these problems in practice, and many games don't care about hyper-competitive play.
>
> ~ *Josh*

# Open Information
Any information that all players have about the game state is open information. For example, the
locations of pieces in [Chess](/games/tabletop/examples/chess) is open information.

# Non-Informational
Game state that is not disclosed to any player (such as the exact order of a shuffled deck of cards)
is non-informational game state. (Note, However, if some players know (perhaps from previous plays
of the game) what the possible cards in the deck are, and other players (perhaps who have never
played before) do not, that is effectively a form of hidden information.)

Like hidden information, non-informational game state can be used to introduce uncertainty in an
action's outcome. It does not, however, create bluffing mechanics, since it is known to all players
that nobody knows this element of the game state.

Note that it may be possible for the knowledge of whether an element of game state is
non-information or hidden information may itself be hidden information - i.e. a player might not
know that nobody else knows something.
