# Introduction
Tabletop role-playing games (TTRPGs) are a branch of [board game](/mechanics/bg) that include a
diverse collection of games in which players assume the role of a character in an imaginary world and
answer questions about what that character would do in certain situations.

TTRPGs frequently (but not always) are multiplayer.

TTRPGs frequently (but not always) designate a specific player as the *Game Master*. This player is
responsible for prompting the other players with situations in which to decide on actions.

As a working example, we can consider a simple dilemma, the *Trolly Problem*:
> A runaway trolly is about to run over five people. If you pull a lever, it will switch to a side
> track and run over one person instead. What do you do? 

This is not an RPG, but rather a direct ethical question. It can be easily altered to fit the above
definition of an RPG:
> Imagine any character. A runaway trolly is about to run over five people. If they pull a lever, it
> will switch to a side track and run over one person instead. What would they do?

We can subdivide RPGs into *consequential* RPGs, in which the impact of the character's actions on
the world feed back into the world and future decisions, and *inconsequential* RPGs, where the play
lies purely in the decision of what the character would do, and not the consequences.

Consequential RPGs must therefore have a mechanic to determine if the particular action of a
character accomplishes their intent or not. This is called **action resolution**. In the simplest
cases this mechanic is the pure fiat or general consensus of the player(s), but most RPGs have more
involved mechanics that arise to contribute to a [challenge aesthetic](/aesthetics/challenge), to
resolve disagreements between players, or for another reason.

Frequently, TTRPGs have mechanics governing the creation of characters, so that the characters
created promote the desired [aesthetics](/aesthetics) of the game. This is called **character
creation**.

Frequently, TTRPGs have mechanics by which the characters' mechanical representations change over
time. This is called **character advancement**.

# Examples
* Dungeons & Dragons
* [Choose-Your-Own-Adventure Books](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choose_Your_Own_Adventure)
* Fiasco (Controversial)
* Shadowrun

# Subpages
The following sub-pages categorize TTRPG mechanics by function.
