# Contact Information

Github Project: [jpawlicki/ruleshaus](https://github.com/jpawlicki/ruleshaus)

Bugs in the site or errors in content should be reported via the Github project's issue tracker. Github
should also be used to [contribute](/contribute) material.

# Licensing

Content in this library is in two forms: primary content that is directly written by the contributors
to the project, and secondary content that is copied for the purpose of reference and analysis from
another source.

Primary content in this library is licensed under the Creative Commons CC0 ("No Rights Reserved")
license. All contributors to this project waive their copyright and related or neighboring rights to
the primary content hosted herein, to the fullest extent available under the law.

This work is published from the United States.

Secondary content in this library may include snippets from copyrighted texts for educational purposes.
All secondary content in this library appears within block quotes and is sourced. In most cases these
limited excerpts fall under fair use or are covered by other licenses. In certain cases, written
permission from the copyright holder(s) may also have been obtained. For inquiries or to request
take-down of material, contact [gilgarn+copyright@gmail.com](mailto:gilgarn+copyright@gmail.com).

If you intend to reuse content from this library, your re-use is limited to material not contained in
block quotes (which are marked by a dotted left margin).

# Other

For other inquiries, contact [gilgarn@gmail.com](mailto:gilgarn@gmail.com)
