# Normative Quote
The Cortex System Role Playing Game defines the action resolution mechanic of the game as follows:

> ### Simple Actions
> Most actions are simple actions. The Game Master decides which Attribute and Skill combination
> (or, in some exceptional cases, an Attribute and another Attribute) is most appropriate for that
> particular action in that situation. Roll the dice and add the results together. If the total is
> higher than the Difficulty set by the Game Master then your character succeeds. The Game Master
> sets the Difficulty based on how difficult the situation is supposed to be. 
>
> ### Opposed Actions
> Sometimes you wind up acting directly against an opponent. When this happens, it’s called an
> opposed action. It doesn’t really matter how well the two opponents perform so long as one does it
> better than the other. Each character makes an appropriate roll, and the one with the highest
> total scores a win. Ties mean no clear winner is established and the contest continues into the
> next turn, unless the circumstances change.  In some cases, both characters roll the same
> Attribute and Skill. In others, different combinations are called for. As in all actions, the Game
> Master considers the situation and decides what each character has to roll.  Some events seem like
> opposed rolls but really aren’t.  If the action directly pits one character against another, use
> opposed rolls. If a minimum level of success exists, however, it’s just two people making
> unopposed rolls and seeing who does better—for example, playing darts. Each character is rolling
> to hit the dartboard, so they each make separate, unopposed rolls against a Difficulty. After all,
> they might both hit the bull’s-eye!
>
> ### Botches & Extraordinary Successes
> A botch is a roll where all the dice come up 1. This means that your character has royally screwed
> something up, and it’s usually up to the Game Master to determine how. An extraordinary success,
> on the other hand, is when you not only beat the Difficulty, but your total is 7 or more points
> greater. In this case, you’ve scored a near-perfect result and the Game Master might throw some
> fringe benefits your way.
>
> ### Assistance
> Sometimes you can’t do the job alone. When this happens, other characters can help out.
> #### Direct Assistance
> When two or more can combine efforts directly, the characters roll as usual and the totals are
> combined. For example, three characters could try heaving an ancient stone sarcophagus out of an
> archaeological dig site. Depending upon the circumstances, the Game Master may limit the number
> of characters that can combine efforts at one time.
> #### Indirect Assistance
> When one character can only offer aid to another, rolls are not added together. Instead, both
> characters roll, and the highest result is used. This occurs when a nurse assists a doctor, a
> copilot aids a pilot, and so on.

# Notes
Dice in Cortex run in steps (d4, d6, d8, d10, d12, d12+d4, etc), so these rolls usually look like
d6+d8, etc.

# Common Cases
Whether the character accomplishes their intent is determined by skill + ability >= difficulty.
opposition.  Modifiers apply to either the skill or ability score, which is measured in dice. There
are two degrees of success (normal and extraordinary) and two degrees of failure (normal and botch).

Group efforts are handled by either summed rolls or max rolls, depending on the type of
collaboration. Limits to cooperation apply.

Opposed efforts require each participant to roll, with the higher result winning. A tie is
interpreted as status quo.

Difficulty is represented by the difficulty level.

# Hooks
 1. Skill of the character.
 2. Ability of the character.
 3. Modifiers to either the skill or ability dice.
 4. Difficulty of the task.

# Constants
In normal play:
 * A skill or ability of d12 is high, and d4 is low.
 * Difficulties range from 3 (easy) to 31 (impossible), with a mode of 7 (average).

# Editorial Opinions

# External Links
