# Introduction
A **game** is any form of play that contains some structural elements. Those structural elements
arise from the rules of the game, which we call [mechanics](/games/mechanics).  People who interact with
the game are called **players** of the game. When a player plays the game, they experience the
[aesthetics](/games/aesthetics) of that game, which ultimately arise from the mechanics.  For example,
they might experience overcoming difficulty, or a narrative arc, or the fellowship of the other
players.

Between mechanics and aesthetics there is an intermediate level of abstraction that models the
behaviors the mechanics give rise to when combined with each other and with the players' actions.
This is the realm of game [dynamics](/games/dynamics).

Games need not have any physical representation. For example, [tag](/games/field/examples/tag) has no
artifacts besides the players and their immediate physical environment. However, most games that are
intentionally designed do, often for the purpose of marketability.

# Scale
We divide games by scale into the following categories:
 * **[Field](/games/field)** games are games primarily played outdoors, with a scale in which the
   players themselves must move about.
 * **[Parlor](/games/parlor)** games are games primarily played within a smalle number of room, with
   a scale in which the players' entire body may be engaged.
 * **[Tabletop](/games/tabletop)** games are games primarily played on the surface of a table, with
   a scale in which the players' hands may be engaged.
 * **[Computer](/games/computer)** games are games primarily played through the aid of electronic
   devices, with a scale in which the players' are primarily engaged through specific input/output
   devices.
