# Introduction
Complexity is one of the primary concerns of any game design. Complexity comes in multiple forms:
 * mechanical complexity
 * dynamic complexity
 * strategic complexity (also called "depth")

## Mechanical Complexity
Mechanical complexity refers to the innate complexity of the game's individual mechanics. Mechanics
that are hard to comprehend, highly situational or exceptional, or difficult to resolve have higher
mechanical complexity than mechanics that are easy to comprehend, universal, or simple to resolve.

All [exceptional mechanics](/games/mechanics) incur some mechanical complexity.

An example of mechanical complexity in [Chess](/games/tabletop/examples/chess) is that each piece
type has its own movement rules.

Mechanical complexity is also called "comprehension complexity" in some sources.

## Dynamic Complexity
Dynamic complexity refers to the innate complexity of the interaction of the game's mechanics and
the players' actions. Games with high dynamic complexity often have players making sub-optimal
moves because they forgot about the relevance of a particular mechanic or a certain dynamic
interaction.

Dynamic complexity is also called "tracking complexity" in some sources.

## Strategic Complexity
Strategic complexity refers to the innate complexity of the optimal strategies of a game. Games with
low strategic complexity are usually dominated by a small number of simple strategies, and it is
easy for players to identify the next best move. Games with high strategic complexity are usually
won by players who have an intricate and complicated strategy.

Strategic complexity is commonly called "depth", especially in the context of strategy games.

# Impact
Complexity in any of the three forms is one of the primary barriers to entry to a game. High
mechanical complexity makes it difficult for new players to understand the immediate cause and
effect in the game. Players overwhelmed by high mechanical complexity don't understand what is
happening. High dynamic complexity makes it difficult for players to understand the implications and
longer-term effects of their moves on the other players and the game state. Players overwhelmed by
high dynamic complexity often make sub-optimal moves because they forgot about the relevance of a
particular mechanic or dynamic. High strategic complexity makes it difficult for new players to
compete effectively (or to contribute effectively in a [cooperative game](/games/winning)) against
veteran players, and makes the game less suitable to cross-age or cross-skill play. Players
overwhelmed by high strategic complexity will regularly lose to better-trained players.

Many games use ranked match-making to address the drawbacks of high strategic complexity. This
solves the general problem of public play, but does not help players seeking a
[fellowship aesthetic](/games/aesthetics/fellowship) (who want to play with particular friends).

On the other hand, low strategic complexity is one of the primary barriers to the longevity of
games relying on a strong [challenge aesthetic](/games/aesthetics/challenge), and higher mechanical
and dynamic complexity can better train players in life-relevant skills.

Games with a strong strong [submission aesthetic](/games/aesthetics/submission) tend to have lower
strategic complexity.

> Many other sources consider any unnecessary mechanical and dynamic complexity to be bad, and
> strategic complexity to be good. I reject this view as too narrow. For example, Candy Land has
> zero strategic complexity (because the player makes no choices) but it is still a highly
> successful game. I would even go further and say that one of Candy Land's strengths is its
> mechanical complexity, since it helps train children to understand and follow instructions. Of
> course, its possible the authors of other sources do recognize this but are often speaking within
> their genre norms and assuming specific aesthetics. Anyways, your mileage may vary.
>
> - *Josh*
