# Introduction
The action resolution mechanics in a TTRPG are mechanics that assist the GM in determining (or
entirely determine themselves) whether the particular action of a player realizes its intended
effect. It may further indicate consequences of an action, though it need not.

# Common Cases
Most action resolution mechanics handle these common cases:
1. **Resolution**: To accomplish X, a character does Y. Is X accomplished?
2. **Group Efforts**: As above, but other characters aid them.
3. **Opposed Efforts**: As above, but another character is simultaneously trying to accomplish Z by
   doing W. Z and X are mutually exclusive. Which is accomplished, if either?
4. **Difficulty**: Certain effects are difficult to accomplish with a particular action. Others are
   easy. How is this represented?

Frequently, action resolution mechanics form the core of the TTRPG's mechanical layer. They
therefore often have *hooks* that other mechanics can influence.

Action resolution mechanics are considered separately from action legality mechanics. Mechanics that
allow or forbid certain actions are separate, and this category is narrowly defined to determine
whether or not a *legal* action accomplishes its intent.

# Use of Action Resolution Mechanics
Most TTRPG action resolution systems advise the players to not engage with the mechanic in cases
where:
 * The probability of failure is remote (near impossible): assume failure instead.
 * The probability of success is remote (near impossible): assume success instead.
 * The outcome doesn't make a difference: assume success instead.
