# Normative Quote
[dungeonworldsrd.com](https://www.dungeonworldsrd.com/playing-the-game/) describes the action
resolution mechanic of Dungeon World as follows:

> ### Making Moves
> The most basic unit of rules in Dungeon World is the move. A move looks like this:
> When you attack an enemy in melee, roll+Str. ✴On a 10+, you deal your damage to the enemy and
> avoid their attack. At your option, you may choose to do +1d6 damage but expose yourself to the
> enemy’s attack. ✴On a 7–9, you deal your damage to the enemy and the enemy makes an attack against
> you. Moves are rules that tell you when they trigger and what effect they have. A move depends on
> a fictional action and always has some fictional effect. “Fictional” means that the action and
> effect come from the world of the characters we’re describing. In the move above the trigger is
> “when you attack an enemy in melee.” The effect is what follows: a roll to be made and differing
> fictional effects based on the outcome of the roll. When a player describes their character doing
> something that triggers a move, that move happens and its rules apply. If the move requires a
> roll, its description will tell you what dice to roll and how to read their results. A character
> can’t take the fictional action that triggers a move without that move occurring. For example, if
> Isaac tells the GM that his character dashes past a crazed axe-wielding orc to the open door, he
> makes the defy danger move because its trigger is “when you act despite an imminent threat.” Isaac
> can’t just describe his character running past the orc without making the defy danger move and he
> can’t make the defy danger move without acting despite an imminent threat or suffering a calamity.
> The moves and the fiction go hand-in-hand. Everyone at the table should listen for when moves
> apply. If it’s ever unclear if a move has been triggered, everyone should work together to clarify
> what’s happening. Ask questions of everyone involved until everyone sees the situation the same
> way and then roll the dice, or don’t, as the situation requires. The GM’s monsters, NPCs, and
> other assorted beasties also have moves, but they work differently.
> 
> ### Moves and Dice
> Most moves include the phrase “roll+x” where “x” is one of your character’s
> ability modifiers (CON for example). Unless the move tells you otherwise, that
> “roll” always means that you roll two six-sided dice and add their results to
> the value of the modifier. Some moves will have you add some other value to
> your roll instead of an ability modifier.
>
> The results always fall into three basic categories. A total of 10 or higher (written 10+) is the
> best outcome. A total of 7–9 is still a success but it comes with compromises or cost. A 6 or
> lower is trouble, but you also get to mark XP. Each move will tell you what happens on a 10+ and a
> 7–9. Most moves won’t say what happens on a 6-, that’s up to the GM but you also always mark XP.
> Damage rolls work a little differently. They use different dice depending on who or what is
> dealing damage

# Common Cases
Whether the character accomplishes their intent is determined by 2d6 + modifiers >= 7. On >= 10, the
character avoids some drawback associated  with the action.

To aid another character, a player must roll 2d6+modifier. If >= 7, the other character gets a +1
modifier. If < 10, the helper is exposed to some drawback. The modifier is determined by another
mechanic (bonds).

Opposed efforts are similar to aid. The reactive player is the interferer, and must make >= 7 on a
roll to penalize the initiator with a -2 penalty. The penalty if < 10 still applies.

Difficulty is represented inter-action by requiring the GM to reflect difficulty through the
legality of actions and by the severity of the drawbacks, or the number of successful actions to
achieve an overall objective.

# Hooks
1. Value of modifiers on the roll.
2. Drawback (risk) of the roll.

# Constants
In normal play:
Modifiers on rolls range from -3 to +3.
Drawbacks range from /hard moves/ such as taking damage or losing equipment (without chance of
reversal) to /soft moves/ which present additional information, opportunity, or a simply a further
prompt for action.

# Editorial Opinions
> The lack of specific action difficulty means that the GM must be mindfully weaving hints about the
> consequences of failure into the narrative, and potentially use action legality mechanics to avoid
> allowing a move altogether.  Since these consequences typically only occur in the 9- range, it's
> necessary to have several rolls in order to trigger failures, and to be normally engaging in rolls
> with modifiers less than +3, which my players tried their best to avoid. You see this most in the
> *Defy Danger* move, where players can propose a method by which they evade or overcome an imminent
> danger, and the stat used is based on their approach. The GM then has to make a choice about
> whether a roll is allowed at all, and if so, then it is likely the player will succeed. This does
> suit Dungeon World's back-and-forth conversational style, but leaves much in the hands of the GM,
> which affects the aesthetics it creates.
>
> Dungeon World also awards XP on a failed roll. Some authors dismiss this as a consolation prize or
> a "you learn more by failing" mechanic, but in my experience the more important effect of this is
> to train GMs to not call for meaningless rolls.
>
> ~ *Josh*

# External Links
[https://www.dungeonworldsrd.com/playing-the-game/](https://www.dungeonworldsrd.com/playing-the-game/)
